[SDK Docs Audit] Swift Geofences feature improvements (#9616)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _includes/developer_guide/swift/geofences.md

1. Go to **Audience** > **Locations**.
2. The number of apps in your workspace that currently have geofences enabled is displayed beneath the map, for example: **0 of 1 Apps with Geofences enabled**. Click this text.
3. Select the app to enable geofences. Click **Done.**
![The geofence options on the Braze locations page.]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/enable-geofences-locations-page.png %})
{% endtab %}

{% tab App Settings %}
Enable geofences from your app's settings.

1. Go to **Settings** > **App Settings**.
2. Select the app for which you wish to enable geofences.
3. Select the **Geofences Enabled** checkbox. Click **Save.**

![The geofence checkbox located on the Braze settings pages.]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/enable-geofences-app-settings-page.png %})
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Step 2: Enable your app's location services

Braze location services must be enabled in your app. They are not enabled by default.

Follow the steps below to enable location services in your app. Optionally reference [this tutorial](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-swift-sdk/tutorials/braze/d1-brazelocation/) for more information.

#### Add the `BrazeLocation` module

> In the `General` tab of your `Application` configuration page, under `Frameworks and Libraries`, add the `BrazeLocation` module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `General` tab of your `Application` configuration page, under `Frameworks, Libraries, & Embedded Content`, add the `BrazeLocation` module.
```

{% endtab %}

{% tab app settings %}
To enable geofences from the **App Settings** page:

1. In Braze, go to **Settings** > **App Settings**.
2. Select the app you'd like to enable geofences for.
3. Check **Geofences Enabled**, then select **Save.**

![The geofence checkbox located on the Braze settings pages.]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/enable-geofences-app-settings-page.png %})
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Step 2: Enable your app's location services

By default, Braze location services are not enabled. To enable them in your app, complete the following steps. For a step-by-step tutorial, see [Tutorial: Braze Locations and Geofences](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-swift-sdk/tutorials/braze/d1-brazelocation/).

#### Step 2.1: Add the `BrazeLocation` module

In Xcode, open the **General** tab. Under **Frameworks, Libraries, and Embedded Content**, add the `BrazeLocation` module.

![Add the BrazeLocation module in your Xcode project]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/add-brazeLocation-module-xcode.png %})

#### Step 2.2: Update your `Info.plist`

> In your `info.plist`, assign a `String` value to one of the following keys that describes why your application needs to track location. This string will be shown when your users are prompted for location services, so be sure to clearly explain the value of enabling this feature for your app.

Reviewer 2: @hokstuff , could we get an example code block here? can be very bare bones and nothing fancy. 👍🏽

Author: There is no sample code that we can provide, but we can add this screenshot in so they know what a sample description would look like in Xcode! Apple takes into account the description when approving apps for the App Store so it needs to be a legit description, which is why we didn't want to have a generic one like in the screenshot

<img width="672" alt="Screenshot 2025-05-08 at 4 58 29 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9e693329-b194-434e-9e43-edad1e62e5ce" />

Author: It is the same text that appears when prompting the user:
<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/45508a48-d1ee-49fe-812f-f5a817841329" height=400>

Reviewer 2: ohhh, got it. its not done in the code its done in Xcode?

Author: Yep it's done in the Xcode UI instead of in code:
<img width="1104" alt="Screenshot 2025-05-08 at 6 02 17 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6d8b22cc-311f-4f42-86aa-f70bf661717a" />

> {% multi_lang_include developer_guide/prerequisites/swift.md %} Additionally, you'll need to [set up silent push notifications]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/push_notifications/silent/?sdktab=swift).

Reviewer 3: I was able to get away without reading the silent push notification article? I did thought read the regular push set-up article. My thought would be that the silent push tutorial is more involved than is necessary for enabling geofences.

Author: I believe parts of the Geofence feature can work without silent push integrated. However, I think Geofence syncs are sent up via silent push, so that might be why we say it is a prerequisite for Geofences

[These methods](https://github.com/braze-inc/swift-sdk/blob/develop/Sources/BrazeKit/_BrazeCore/Core/Notification/Payload/NotificationPayload.swift#L150-L159) are indirectly mentioned [in the silent push public docs](https://www.braze.com/docs/developer_guide/push_notifications/silent#silent-push-notifications:~:text=.Notifications.-,isInternalNotification,-(userInfo)) as well

## Setting up geofences {#setting-up-geofences}

> 

Author: Note: We should add instructions (+ a screenshot because clients can't miss those 😂) to enable the Geofences toggle in the Dashboard, [like shown here](https://brazetechnology.slack.com/archives/G0171TAJJ1L/p1746546448992179)

I think to make sure it's not forgotten, we can also add this to the complementary Android docs while we're at it

### Step 1: Enable location services

> Braze location services [must be enabled](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-swift-sdk/tutorials/braze/d1-brazelocation/) through the SDK. They are not enabled by default.

Reviewer 3: In my opinion/experience, the steps listed there are pretty much the same steps listed below except that they also link to an Apple-hosted guide on setting up location services. I kind of think the redundancy could be somewhat confusing. I also think the aforementioned Apple guide actually isn't that great, if we have any interest in trying to host that info here.

Author: Yeah it has been a concern that we may have docs in 2 separate places (public docs, and our Swift tutorials). Are you suggesting that we may want to add the instructions directly into the public docs here, rather than have the integrator bounce back and forth b/t our two docs places?

Reviewer 3: I more so think that what's being linked to here should be presented as an alternative, more code-centric tutorial rather then as pre-requisite steps for the rest of this tutorial.

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

#### Step 2.1 (Optional) Enable background reporting

By default, geofences are only monitored if your app is in the foreground, or if it has `Always` authorization (which monitors all application states).

However, you can choose to monitor geofence events when your app is in the background or if [`When In Use` authorization](#swift_request-authorization) is active. To do this, add the `Background Mode -> Location updates` capability to your Xcode project.

> ![In Xcode, Background Mode > Location Updates]({% image_buster /assets/img/push_implementation_guide/xcode-background-modes-location-updates.png %})

Author: ```suggestion
![In Xcode, Background Mode > Location Updates]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/xcode-background-modes-location-updates.png %})
```

{% endtab %}

{% tab Always %}
By default, `requestAlwaysAuthorization()` only grants your app `When In Use` authorization and will re-prompt your user for `Always` authorization after some time has passed.

> However, you can choose to immediately prompt your user by first calling `requestWhenInUseAuthorization()`, then calling `requestAlwaysAuthorization()` after receiving your initial `When In Use` authorization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you can choose to immediately prompt your user by first calling `requestWhenInUseAuthorization()` and then calling `requestAlwaysAuthorization()` after receiving your initial `When In Use` authorization.
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Step 2: Call `requestGeofences` manually

> When the Braze SDK requests geofences from the backend, it reports the user's current location and receives geofences that are determined to be optimally relevant based on the location reported.

Reviewer: Should we move these two paragraphs to the top-level section, right before step 1? This information seems relevant for the entire section as a whole. When I got to this section, it wasn't clear to me why we would want to do this until I read step 2.

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> 

Author: Reminder: Add an FAQ to recommend integrators to use the Braze Debugger to help debug this feature if they entered/exited a Geofence

cc @torossian97

Reviewer 2: we currently have this noted throughout a few dev guide articles:

```markdown
{% alert note %}
While performing QA on your SDK integration, use the [SDK Debugger]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/sdk_integration/debugging) to get troubleshoot issues without turning on verbose logging for your app.
{% endalert %}
```

but i'm thinking we can move it to an include + clean up the language (if needed) and then link it in this articles where applicable?

cc @torossian97 @hokstuff

Author: This was a specific Product team ask to include a link to use the SDK debugger especially for Geofences due to the high Support volume. But yes I'm down to clean up the language and have something link out from this section!

> ## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) {#faq}

Reviewer 3: I think we should add a new section about interactions between Braze's geofence feature and any other geofence usage the customer might have going on. I notice many PQs about this. I can push something later this week.

Author: What types of interactions are you thinking about adding? Also feel free to just push what you were thinking

#### Why am I being rate limited when requesting geofences?

Braze has a limit of one geofence refresh per session to avoid unnecessary requests.

#### Why are my geofences with Braze not being received by my device?

> The iOS operating system only allows a single app to store a maximum of 20 geofences. If your app also stores non-Braze geofences, there may not be space for the Braze geofences.

Reviewer: For my knowledge, what does storage mean in this case? Is there a clearance policy, or rather, how do the 20 geofences get refreshed when appropriate?

Reviewer: That sounds good to me - I think we can probably keep it as it is now!

#### Can the Geofences feature be used while a device is offline?

> If the device was connected to the internet and successfully receives geofences from the server, it is possible to enter a geofence even if the device is offline. This is because a device's location operates separately from its internet connectivity.

Reviewer: Editing for flow. Let me know what you think of this:
```suggestion
A device needs to be connected to the internet only when a refresh occurs. Once it has successfully received geofences from the server, it is possible to enter a geofence even if the device is offline. This is because a device's location operates separately from its internet connectivity.
```

Below are other possible reasons geofences may not be received on your device:

##### iOS operating system limitations

The iOS operating system only allows up to 20 geofences to be stored for a given app. With geofences enabled, Braze will use up some of these 20 available slots.

To prevent accidental or unwanted disruption to other geofence-related functionality in your app, location geofences must be enabled for individual apps on the dashboard. For our location services to work correctly, check that your app is not using all available geofence spots.

##### Rate limiting

Braze has a limit of 1 geofence refresh per session to avoid unnecessary requests.

#### How does it work if I am using both Braze and non-Braze geofence features?

As mentioned above, iOS allows a single app to store a maximum of 20 geofences. This storage is shared by both Braze and non-Braze geofences and is managed by [CLLocationManager](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/corelocation/cllocationmanager).

> For instance, if your app contains 20 non-Braze geofences, there would be no storage to track any Braze geofences. In order to receive new Braze geofences, you will need to use [Apple's location APIs](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/corelocation) to stop monitoring some of the existing geofences on the device.

Reviewer 3: Double check me on this, but isn't it equally possible that the Braze geofences kick out some of the customer's own geofences?

Author: Yes it is equally possible for that too. I put "for example" just to highlight this case. I guess I can add "or vise versa" if we want to be more explicit in case the reader doesn't understand it can happen the opposite way
